v1.65 promo post for Andrew (#4242)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/tenant-manager-sso.mdx

---
publish_date: 2026-04-21
title: Stop Being Your Customers' SSO Helpdesk
description: Enterprise SSO has always come with a tax — on your team's time, on your per-connection bill, or both. FusionAuth v1.65 cuts it.
authors: Andrew Hatfield
image: /img/blogs/tenant-manager-sso/tenant-manager-sso.png
categories: Product
tags: sso, enterprise, tenant manager, saml, oidc, b2b
excerpt_separator: "{/* more */}"
---

> Enterprise SSO has always come with a tax — on your team's time, on your per-connection bill, or both. FusionAuth v1.65 cuts it.

Reviewer: We should avoid LLM cliches like emdashes and 3 item lists when possible. Furthermore, we should avoid pronouns for clarity when possible ("it").

{/* more */}

Here's a pattern I've seen repeated across B2B SaaS companies at every stage.

> You close your first enterprise deal. It's proof you've built something enterprises actually want. Six weeks later, their IT admin emails about SSO. Your engineering team handles it. By "handles it," I mean a ticket, a back-and-forth, an admin session, and a misconfiguration that doesn't surface until someone tries to log in for the first time.

Reviewer: "emails about SSO" is unclear -- who are they emailing?

"a ticket, a back-and-forth, and admin session, and a misconfiguration" -- I'm not sure we can guarantee a misconfiguration?

Author: Added clarity for the emailing. 

Pushing back on misconfiguration. We're not guaranteeing anything. But pre-deployment testing should prevent them from happening.

> Three weeks. One customer.

Reviewer: It sounds like the ticket, back-and-forth, and admin session don't encompass 3 full weeks of dev time, so I guess this means end-to-end to a working solution? It might be a good idea to emphasize this so readers don't get the impression that you mean 3 weeks of person hours.

> Now you've got four more enterprise deals in the pipeline, and every one of them will follow the same story.

Reviewer: Four more deals is an oddly specific number at this juncture of the narrative. This exact numeric scenario has been witnessed repeatedly at multiple B2B SaaS companies?

## The math breaks faster than you think

Close the deal. Get the SSO request. Handle the configuration. Find the misconfiguration in production. Fix it.

> One customer: manageable. Five customers: a cost your engineering manager is quietly absorbing. Twenty customers: a line item your CFO is going to notice and your CTO is going to have to answer for.

Reviewer: Avoid ending sentences with prepositions ('for').

> What no one realizes in the beginning: this isn't a technical problem. Your product works. Your auth stack works. The problem is that the wrong team owns the process. Your engineers are doing IT work for your customers' companies because those customers have no self-service path. Every enterprise deal you close adds to a queue that doesn't self-clear.

Reviewer: I'm not sure no one realizes this in the beginning, so it feels disingenuous to imply that it is. Perhaps management doesn't realize this? Maybe it's more of a statement about the flexibility of organizations?

Reviewer: What does 'a queue that doesn't self-clear' mean in this context? How does it add to the narrative? I think the previous sentence is a far better closing thought to the paragraph.

> That's the case you need to make internally — not "this is annoying," but "this is a cost that gets worse with every deal we close."

Reviewer: This sentence is redundant and we should avoid LLM cliches like emdashes when possible.

## There's also a pricing problem — depending on how you're solving it

If you've been evaluating other platforms to solve this, you've likely seen two pricing models in the market — and both have the same problem.

> Some charge per SSO connection. $125 per connection per month is common. Twenty enterprise customers: $2,375 per month, just for the self-service SSO layer, before you've written a line of product code. That number grows with every deal you close.

Reviewer: 125 * 20 = 2500, no? So where does 2375 come from?

> Others cap enterprise connections at the plan level rather than charging per connection. Three connections on one tier, five on the next. Your sixth enterprise customer forces a jump to their top tier and a sales conversation. If you started on a lower-cost track and added enterprise buyers, you've already hit the forcing function — minimum pricing jumps of 4x or more, for the same MAU cap.

Reviewer: Do we expect all readers to already know what 'forcing function' means? I sure don't.

Author: This is self-referential to the previous sentence.

> The mechanism differs. The outcome is the same: unpredictable costs that multiply as you scale.

Reviewer: We should avoid LLM cliches like this (Short catchy hook. Some takeaway: explained in slightly different woods).

> Most teams accept this as a cost of doing enterprise business. You shouldn't, because it isn't.

Reviewer: This is a very similar LLM cliche to the previous one, but I think it's acceptable since it does a decent job of transitioning to the next statement. However, it might be better to reword this in a way that doesn't look like classic LLM output.

> ## What FusionAuth v1.65 ships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What FusionAuth v1.65 will ship
```
future tense to avoid customers thinking this is already out

Tenant Manager now includes a complete self-service SSO configuration flow.

> Your enterprise customer's IT admin logs in, selects their identity provider type, fills in the form, and runs a built-in test before anything goes live. Pass: they enable it. Fail: they see exactly what went wrong, fix it, re-test, and enable it. Done — without emailing your team.

Reviewer: Does the "Pass... Fail" explanation here actually add anything? The last half of this paragraph is full of LLM cliches like unnecessary/redundant lists and snappy emdash usage. It would read better if you trimmed it down, and better explained the end benefit for the customer:

```suggestion
Your enterprise customer's IT admin logs in, selects and configures their identity provider, and tests their configuration. Once it works, they can immediately start using SSO.
```

> [SAML v2](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/saml) and [OIDC](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/identity-providers/overview-oidc) are both supported. For OIDC, the discovery endpoint auto-populates configuration from the issuer URL. Most modern providers — Okta, Entra, Google Workspace — resolve with a single field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers can configure this flow with either [SAML v2](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/saml) or [OIDC](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/identity-providers/overview-oidc). OIDC even auto-populates configuration from the issuer URL. Most modern providers — Okta, Entra, Google Workspace — resolve with a single field.
```
Use active voice whenever possible to improve readability. Trim some words.

> You keep control of the guardrails. You set which IdP types each tenant can access and define the linking strategies. Your customers work within those guardrails without pulling your team in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You set which IdP types each tenant can access and define the linking strategies. Your customers work within those guardrails without engineering tickets and calls.
```
The first sentence is vague unless the reader already knows what 'guardrails' we're referring to, so I think this paragraph is better without it. Avoid ending sentences with prepositions -- and I think the idea is stronger if we explicitly refer back to the engineering resources being squandered in the original narrative (though we don't want to imply that engineering resources are 'wasted' when spent on a customer, so we have to be a bit mindful here).

> ## The test is what actually matters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The power of self-service
```
This header is awfully generic; i think we can focus a bit more on the feature we're actually highlighting instead.

> The most common SSO escalation I've seen isn't a missing feature. It's a misconfiguration that looks right in the form but fails when someone tries to log in.

Reviewer: Avoid LLM cliches like "Foo isn't bar. It's bazbar."

What does "SSO escalation" mean? It sounds like support jargon, which might confuse readers. And what form are we referring to? The only form this narrative has brought up is the form in our SSO solution, which we certainly don't want to involve in this negative escalation discussion.

It might be better to say something like:

```suggestion
Customers can implement SSO quickly. But misconfigurations and long feedback loops can slow the process to a crawl.
```

This improves readability, focuses on the actual problem at hand, removes LLM cliches, and even incorporates some colorful language to entice the reader.

> Every IdP configuration can now be tested against the real identity provider before it touches production. Pass or fail, clearly shown. If it fails, the error detail tells the tenant admin what's wrong — so they fix it before it reaches your queue.

Reviewer: What does 'can now be tested' mean here -- what is the 'now' referring to? 2026/modern day? FusionAuth today? FusionAuth after 1.65 release?

The rest of this paragraph just repeats information we've already heard before, or truisms. "Pass or fail, clearly shown" doesn't even mean anything. Shown where? 

We need to focus this on FusionAuth and make it obvious to the reader that we're describing our improvements. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Self-service SSO in FusionAuth 1.65 makes IdP configuration easy to test against a real identity provider before you deploy to production. If the configuration doesn't work, FusionAuth shows an error log that helps your customer debug their configuration without contacting your engineers.
```

We should stick with one term "customer" for the second B in B2B -- bringing in a theoretical "tenant admin" at this point in the narrative is confusion. And the narrative is stronger if we keep hammering the central point: protecting the precious time of your engineers, and limiting the size of the feedback loop for your customers.

> Your team never even knows it happens because your customer handled it themselves.

Reviewer: If you hit the 'without contacting your engineers' point above, you can omit this paragraph. I think we're better off without it, since I don't want things to happen without the knowledge of my team -- and technically they will know it happened, since they have access to the logs.

```suggestion
```

> This is the specific detail your CTO cares about: the problem isn't just removed from your team's queue. It's prevented at the source. There's a difference between "we handled it faster" and "it stopped happening." v1.65 is the second one.

Reviewer: This paragraph feels like spoonfeeding the reader. It's full of LLM cliches ("isn't just... it's" and scarequotes). The final sentence, "v1.65 is the second one" is hard to understand even on repeat read. And confusing, since we gnerally use the fully qualified version number (1.65.0) elsewhere, without the leading `v`. We should scrap this completely, simplify, and pull in more of the problem/solution pairings alluded to earlier in the post:

```suggestion
Your engineers can stop silently absorbing costs. Your CFO doesn't any line item to notice. Your CTO doesn't have to explain why engineers are spending huge chunks of time debugging customer applications.
```

It's more satisfying to come back full circle to the problems we foreshadowed earlier. And using colloquial terms like "chunk" helps ground our writing in human terms, instead of LLM cliches.

> ## Two things that don't change regardless of which competitor you're evaluating

Reviewer: After reading this section, I don't know what those two things are. And this header is very long -- longer than looks good on most screens. We should just state the two things instead.

> Self-service SSO in [Tenant Manager](/docs/lifecycle/manage-users/tenant-manager) closes the capability gap. But the platform advantages that made you evaluate FusionAuth in the first place are unchanged — and they matter more at enterprise scale.

Reviewer: What capability gap? Between what and what? This is a complete non sequitur. Where does the second sentence come from -- is the target audience for this post people who have already evaluated FusionAuth? And what matters more at enterprise scale?

I'm pretty sure this paragraph is all redundant restatings of the following idea:

```suggestion
Self-service SSO in [Tenant Manager](/docs/lifecycle/manage-users/tenant-manager) helps you operate at enterprise scale.
```

If that's the case, use this suggestion. If you mean to imply something else, we should be clearer.

> FusionAuth [platform licensing](/feature-list) covers all SSO connections. No per-connection charge. No plan-tier forcing. The cost stays flat as your enterprise customer base grows. Against WorkOS, for 20 enterprise customers, that's $2,375 per month you're not paying.

Reviewer: "covers" is weak phrasing here; can we be more explicit about how the reader's cost will scale over those 20 customers? Why does this paragraph explicitly call out WorkOS -- should we have introduced them before when we brought up the 20 customer example? And shouldn't this still be 2500 (125 * 20) instead of 2375?

> And FusionAuth is the only commercial CIAM platform in this category with a [single-tenant deployment option](/articles/identity-basics/multi-tenancy-vs-single-tenant-idaas-solutions). [Auth0, WorkOS, Stytch, Descope](/guides/auth0-alternatives) — all multi-tenant cloud-only. If you're selling into financial services, healthcare, or government, or into EU markets where data sovereignty is a contractual requirement, isolated single-tenancy isn't a preference. It's the answer your competitors can't give. For the deals where that matters, it's the close.

Reviewer: We should avoid LLM cliches like "isn't... it's". Rephrase passive to active voice wherever possible. This paragraph has a lot of redundancies that can be eliminated:

```suggestion
FusionAuth is the only commercial CIAM platform with a [single-tenant deployment option](/articles/identity-basics/multi-tenancy-vs-single-tenant-idaas-solutions). [Auth0, WorkOS, Stytch, and Descope](/guides/auth0-alternatives) all only offer multi-tenant cloud. Financial services, healthcare, government, and many EU markets all require single-tenant solutions. For any deals in those spaces, it's the close.
```

I think we can do better than "it's the close", but I think it gets the job done.

## What to do now

> If you're already on FusionAuth: Tenant Manager SSO is live in [v1.65](/docs/release-notes) from April 30th, 2026. Open Admin App settings, configure which IdP types your tenants can access, and point your enterprise customers to Tenant Manager. The queue clears itself from here.

Reviewer: Tenant Manager SSO isn't yet live, so we should use future tense here.

We should use `1.65.0` (note the monospace) for consistence with the docs. Drop the leading v.

Don't link to the release notes if this drops before 1.65.0; it'll only confuse users.

"Admin App settings" isn't the verbiage we use elsewhere in the docs. Our content always says "In the Admin UI" -- admin app settings will only confuse users.

We're missing some details about where in the admin app this configurations lives. It sure isn't at the landing page, but this makes it sound like it's right there!

The last sentence of this paragraph "The queue clears itself from here" doesn't make any sense; in this example, the queue actually never fills at all, because customers never enter any tickets with you. So it doesn't have to clear. We should remove that sentence or use a clearer metaphor.

> If you're evaluating FusionAuth: ask to see the Tenant Manager SSO flow in your [demo](/contact). Your SE can run configure-to-test-to-enable end-to-end in under 15 minutes against a real IdP environment. That's the demo you bring back to your CTO — and it answers both questions they're going to ask: does it work, and does it take my team out of the loop?

Reviewer: What is configure-to-test-to-enable ? Should there be a link here? Or is this just too much detail and jargon for end users? we need to clean this up to make this a clearer CTA -- right now, it'll just confuse users.

In this example, will the CTO actually be anticipating taking their team out of the loop? I'm not sure our theoretical CTO here is asking great questions -- we'd hope that it works, and based on our earlier narrative, they won't anticipate self-servicing users as an advantage until we inform them. So we should think a bit more about what a theoretical CTO might ask and how we'll satisfy them.
